---
layout: post
title: Using Voyant
excerpt: "A useful tool for visualizing Pearson's Diary"
modified: 9/7/2021, 9:00:24
tags: [intro, scholarship, digital, digital humanities]
comments: false
category: blog
---

I'll start this blog post off with a disclaimer that I am by no means tech savvy; I often mess up quite simple directions from a technology standpoint (the latest - I could not for the life of me figure out how to log my work hours into kronos). However, I see a lot of value in using technology as a critical tool from more of a statistics standpoint, which is how I hope to approach this project and this activity. 

## Using Voyant 
Since we looked at the Pearson Diary overall during the session today, I wanted to get a different look at the data that might potentially be more useful for the final product. So, I only looked at the diary entries from 1828-1832, whcih constitutes the 150 page section we're looking at (and then some). The trends were actually very different, as Pearson did not spend a majority of this time at Union, instead moving between Chichester, Waterville College, and Schenectady. I was not expecting for Pearson's musings on the weather to make up such a significant portion of his diary entires at this time; this perhaps points to what might be useful to note in the context section for diary entries at the time, for instance, especially since tools like Voyant do not note context. Further, I wanted to use Voyant to examine potential topics that I have been looking at throughout these first two weeks. Searching "man" vs. "woman" in the text analysis tool demonstrated how Pearson focused much more on men in his diary. 

## Strengths and Weaknesses 
Voyant was really helpful in revealing trends that I was not expecting; I particularly liked the word mapping tools, like the cloud or links tools that showed word frequency and connection. However, the tool isn't foolproof, as I had to adjust it to omit years, days and months as frequently used terms in a meticulously dated diary - I think it's clear why that does not work for this form. 

Overall, Voyant is a great visualization tool if you think critically about the results you really want to see, as it provides little to no context for the results. It's a great guide to use with all of the other resources we have discussed thus far.  
